- 'Sup, you beautiful bastards?
Hope you're having a fantastic Tuesday.
Also, is that the most tone
deaf intro at this point?
I feel like I'm saying that
while the set behind me is on fire.
Or may be it's more
hopeful or aspirational.
Either way, welcome back to
the Philip DeFranco Show.
Buckle up, hit that like button,
and let's just jump into it.
And the first thing we're going to talk
about today is non-coronavirus news.
It turns out there is still some.
So if you're unaware,
there's this new viral trend
that has resulted in a number
of big people under fire.
You might have already seen
an example of this trend
on your timeline, over Twitter,
Facebook, TikTok, whatever,
but mug shots right
now are rather popular.
Right, there are numerous
examples of this.
You've had users making
compilation videos of real mugshots
featuring people they find
interesting or attractive.
That eventually morphed
into people staging
their own mugshot photos.
And a typical post here would be someone
with messy hair, smudged mascara,
some costume makeup that
roughens up their look.
Some holding up signs of fake
or phoney reasons for their arrest.
Others have even pretended
to get into fights
or staged scenarios that
might lead to a fake arrest.
Some have also taken it
further, adding fake bruises,
black eyes, bloody noses.
And while there are people that
had issues with this trend,
especially the ones with
bruised or bloody faces,
the people that ended up
getting hit the hardest
were three massive influencers.
Be the likes of Youtuber James Charles,
TikTok creator Avani Gregg,
and a Vlog Squad member, Corinna Kopf.
Now this could have also been impart
because these creators posted
on Instagram and Twitter,
where some were unaware
of the TikTok trend,
and so people were confused and surprised.
James Charles, for
instance, posted his look
without a caption and he was flooded
with comments accusing him
of triggering domestic violence survivors
and glamorizing abuse.
And according to Insider
in a since deleted tweet,
James said that he changed
his Instagram caption
to joke about getting punched,
but he changed it back soon after
because making that joke wasn't funny.
But still, his replies were full
of stories from domestic
violence survivors
who found the look offensive.
And you know, in those comments
we saw him defending himself,
trying to explain the trend,
that it has nothing to
do with domestic abuse,
writing, "What about action movies?
Halloween? Special effects?
Simple bloody noses?
This is nothing new."
Also in now deleted tweets,
he also pointed to bloody looks
by The Weeknd and Billie Eilish,
writing, "I haven't seen a single tweet
about him glorifying violence or abuse.
Can someone please explain
how it's any different?
I'm really trying to understand."
But ultimately, he ended
up deleting that post
and wrote, "Despite the fact that hundreds
of other influencers and artists
have done something similar,
I deleted the mugshot trend
because it was never my
intention to trigger anyone,
and it's a waste of time trying
to have an open discussion
with people who hate me regardless."
We also saw Avani Gregg respond
to the backlash, apologizing.
Then going on to explain the storyline
for the character she took on
in a series of TikTok posts.
Corinna also deleting her photos as well,
though I haven't seen her
release any sort of statement.
Which honestly, makes sense.
I mean, often times these days
the best response is no response.
And often instead of
calming down a situation,
it amplifies and it opens you
up for an even bigger hit.
And I mean just look at this situation.
The person who has become
the face of this controversy
and scandal around this
trend is James Charles.
Like if you just look
at the coverage today,
his face is plastered everywhere.
And also understand, I'm not blaming him
for responding to what's happening,
but I think it highlights why
others often do not speak.
With this story, I did want to
pass the question off to you.
What are your thoughts on this?
Do you think that this trend
is stupid, it's offensive.
And if you do think that
it's offensive, right,
is it more of the domestic violence angle?
Or, I've seen a lot of people arguing
that it's dismissive
of mass incarceration.
Or you're on the other end of this.
Do you think that this
is completely overblown?
You people seeing this out of context,
not understanding the trend,
they're just lashing out.
Yeah, what are your thoughts
on this, let me know.
But from that, I want to
share some stuff I love today.
And today, an awesome,
brought to you by Keeps.
And if you didn't know,
two out of three guys
will experience some form
of male pattern baldness
by the time that they're 35.
Right, and if you think
about it, you know,
we all have that one brother,
that uncle, that friend,
and if you don't want that for yourself,
you don't have to just sit idly by.
And Keeps helps you stop hair
loss before it's too late
with their scientific
and affordable approach.
Their treatments are up to 90% effective
at reducing and stopping
further hair loss,
and they say prevention is key.
You also don't have to go
broke to avoid going bald.
Keeps offers generic versions
of the only two FDA
approved hair loss products
that are out there.
So some of you may have
actually tried them before
but probably never for this price.
And actually on that
note, for a limited time,
you beautiful bastards can
get your order for 50% off.
So, if you're ready to take
action and prevent hair loss,
go to Keeps.com/DeFranco
or just click that link
in the description down below
to receive 50% off your first order.
And the first bit of awesome today is
after today's show you
want to watch two clips
with myself and Shawn Evans, you can.
In one we talk about the
use of certain substances,
and the other is talking about why we
as Americans need Joe
Biden and Donald Trump
on an episode of "Hot Ones".
Screw a town hall debate.
This is how we get answers.
We got the trailer for
"Extraction" with Chris Hemsworth
that drops on Netflix in
just under three weeks.
And Adam Sandler and Jimmy Fallon
performing "Don't Touch Grandma".
And Binging with Babish
is giving us brisket
from "The Marvelous Mrs. Maisel".
A New Yorker gave us the streets
of New York City under quarantine.
Vanity Fair gave us
"Looney Tunes" voice actor
improvises 12 new cartoon voices.
And Comedy Central gave us Dan Levy
on how the Schitts Creek
characters would quarantine.
And if you want to see the full versions
of everything I just shared,
the secret link of the day,
really anything at all,
links, as always, are in
the description down below.
And then let's talk about
our douche bag of the day.
Lorraine Maradiaga.
And Lorraine is a very
special 18 year old girl
in Texas who is now facing a charge
of making a terroristic threat.
And the reason she's facing that charge is
that there are these Snapchat
videos of her going around
where it appears to show her going
to a drive through testing site,
where a nurse is heard telling the person
behind the steering wheel
that they need to go home
while they wait for results.
And then later in a
number of other videos,
one, we see her in what
she claims to be a Walmart.
- I'm here at Walmart
about to infest (censored)
because if I'm going down,
all y'all (censored) are going down.
Look, my earring even going down.
- We also see her in her
car coughing on camera.
- If you want to get the coronavirus,
and die, call me.
And I will meet you up
and (coughs) all over you.
And I will shorten your life.
- There's also another
clip that I can't play
'cause there's copyrighted music in it.
But it appears to show her acknowledging
that people have been screen recording
those previous videos.
She says, "I don't care.
Make me famous."
And so I guess to Lorrainne, I wanna say
I and the Carrollton Texas
Police are happy to do our part.
And to anyone out there that
happens across this video
and has information,
The Carrollton Texas Police would love
for you to call this number
or email this email because
she's still out there.
She's said to be charged with the crime.
The police are looking for her.
Her family is reportedly
working with the authorities.
And to Lorrainne, I think you're about
to get a lesson in the difference
between famous and infamous.
You are not only our
douche bag of the day,
but another prime example
that allows me to say
don't be stupid, stupid.
And then of course let's talk
about our daily coronavirus numbers.
As of 4 p.m. Eastern Time,
worldwide, there are now
1.4 million confirmed cases
81,103 total deaths.
Total recoveries at 297,934.
And in the United States,
there are 386,800 confirmed cases,
12,285 deaths,
20,191 confirmed recoveries.
Now regarding coronavirus numbers,
something interesting
in the United States is
that it appears to be
disproportionally impacting
African American communities.
And the percentages here
are rather staggering,
right, taking a look at Louisiana.
The state has a little under 15,000 cases,
over 500 deaths,
and of those who died 70% were black
and that was a standout percentage
because black people makeup
roughly 1/3 of the population.
With the states governor,
John Bel Edwards,
calling this figure disturbing
and adding, "That deserves more attention
and we're going to have to dig into that
and see what we can do
to slow that trend down."
But, Louisiana is far from alone.
Take Chicago, for example.
Their 1/3 of the population
is comprised of African Americans,
they've lost 118 people to this virus.
And of the 118 people Chicago
has lost to this virus,
81 of those are black residents,
making them 70% of the total deaths there.
In Milwaukee where African Americans
make up 27% of the population,
they make up 35 of the 49 deaths thus far.
And looking at all of this,
according to the New York Times,
there are multiple factors
that lead to these numbers.
African Americans are generally considered
a higher risk in any outbreak.
This is because it's said
that they're less likely to be insured,
more likely to have
pre-existing conditions,
and because of implicit racial bias,
they're being denied testing
and treatment at a higher rate.
So you pair that with the fact
that they're also less likely to have jobs
that allow them to work from home.
And in fact, according to
the Economic Policy Institute
while 30% of white Americans
and 37% of Asian Americans
can work from home,
only 20% of African Americans can
with that number being smaller
for Hispanic and Latina workers.
And so all of that
combined with lower access
to adequate healthcare puts them
in an incredibly vulnerable spot.
And understand, it's not just these places
that I'm mentioning right
now experiencing this.
Numbers of cities and states are seeing
this pattern as well,
but also there's a lack of information
from a number of places.
Right, according to NBC News,
as of right now only eight
states and DC have reported
how the coronavirus has
impacted various demographics
like racial population.
Now this lack of reporting could stem
from a number of reasons.
Firstly, states are not required to do so
but also secondly,
collecting all this data
could be difficult and even
if the data is collected,
some might fear the
information's unreliable.
But also there are big efforts
right now urging states
and federal governments
to share this information
so that this huge
imbalance can be addressed.
What some politicians arguing,
"This lack of information will exacerbate
existing health disparities and result
in the loss of lives in
vulnerable communities.
It will also hamper the efforts
of public health officials
to track and contain the novel coronavirus
in the areas that are at the highest risk
of continued spread."
But ultimately for now
we have to wait to see
what happens there and also
if this trend continues.
And then lets talk about elections.
Because, yes, the election later this year
it is a big deal,
but in fact the Wisconsin
primary election is
happening right now.
This is a huge deal because
Wisconsin is the first state
to hold a major in person election
since the majority of states issued
shelter-in-place orders,
including, the state of Wisconsin.
It also makes the state the only one
to hold in-person elections this month
after more than a dozen
other states pushed theirs.
With this election
today there's been a lot
of confusion back and forth
over whether or not it
was actually happening.
So let's break down what happened, right,
so yesterday Democratic
governor Tony Evers
issued an executive order delaying
the election until June 9th.
And according to reports,
Evers held off on this move until
the last minute for a few reasons.
First, it's not just the primary,
in fact a lot of local
offices on the ballot
there start their terms in April.
And secondly, it's said that this is
because state law says that only
the state legislature can
change the date of the election.
Now the GOP live legislature
refused to change the date
or allow the election to go forward
with all mail-in ballots.
So, when Evers went ahead
with the executive order,
the state legislature filed
a legal challenge saying
that the governor was exceeding
his constitutional authority.
And shortly after that
the states Supreme Court,
which has a conservative
majority right now,
shot down the order
and said that the election
had to happen today.
And in fact, in another kick to Evers,
the U.S. Supreme Court
blocked a federal court ruling
that would've extended absentee
voting until April 13th.
And in a five to four vote,
the Supreme Court ruled
that extending the deadline
for absentee voting quote,
"Fundamentally alters the
nature of the election".
Now all four of the
liberal justices dissented
with Ruth Bader Ginsburg writing,
"The question here is
whether tens of thousands
of Wisconsin citizens can vote safely
in the midst of a pandemic.
With the majority's stay in place,
that will not be possible.
Either they will have to brave the polls,
endangering their own and others' safety,
or they will lose their right to vote
through no fault of their own."
And so it seems that, in fact,
that's the decision that
voters had to make today.
And but it's also not just the voters
you're talking about poll
workers, election officials.
While officials have said
they're taking precautions
to protect their health
at voting precincts,
they've also said that all this legal back
and forth has created confusion
and logistical problems.
This is also made worst by the fact that
thousands of poll workers
have refused to work
with some reportedly saying
that they were being asked
to risk their health.
And that's why we were
seeing, according to reports,
roughly 2,400 National
Guardsmen were being trained
as poll workers as late as Monday.
Though reportedly it
still will not come close
to the more than 7,000
who have already said
that they cannot work.
And because of the lack of poll workers,
officials have shut down
tons of polling stations.
With one of the most dramatic
examples being in Milwaukee
where the number of polling locations
was cut from 180 to five.
This, despite the fact that
election workers expect
more than 50,000 voters to turn out today.
Which also means that
those who do decide to vote
and wait in the super long line,
also risk exposing themselves
to even more people
at each individual location.
Right, in regarding that note,
we saw a lot of people
sharing videos on Twitter
of lines wrapping around buildings,
spanning whole blocks.
And while a lot of people did
seem to be social distancing,
we also saw a lot of
people taking to Twitter
to criticize this move
with Wisconsin trending on Twitter.
And there we saw a lot of users saying
that the move was un-democratic
or was voter suppression.
Some directly accusing
the states republicans
of endangering their people,
others condemning the SCOTUS decision.
A lot of those points were
echoed by Bernie Sanders
who tweeted, "It's outrageous
that the Republican
legislative leaders and
the conservative majority
on the Supreme Court in
Wisconsin are willing
to risk the health and
safety of many thousands
of Wisconsin voters tomorrow
for their own political gain.
Holding this election amid
the coronavirus outbreak
is dangerous, disregards the guidance
of public health experts, and
may very well prove deadly.
For that reason, our
campaign will not be engaged
in any traditional Get
Out The Vote efforts."
Now, Joe Biden for his
part has not said much
since the decision,
but on Thursday he took a
different stand telling reporters,
"There's a lot of things that can be done,
that's for the Wisconsin
courts and folks to decide."
With Biden reportedly going on
to insist that the in-person
and mail-in voting could
both be done safely.
Now that said it should be noted
that in the other side of this
you also have people
applauding the decision,
saying that it was a good move.
Others seemingly downplaying the move
like one Republican county
chair named Jim Miller,
who said, "If you can go
out and get fast food,
you can go vote curbside.
It's the same procedure."
We also had Trump chiming in this morning,
telling people to go out
to vote for conservative
supreme court justice.
And ultimately that is
where we are right now.
Right, we have to wait and
see how this impacts turn out
and unfortunately if this impacts
the spread of the coronavirus.
And as far as the official
results from this election,
it doesn't seem that we're going
to be getting those later today.
And that's because the federal judge
that initially allowed absentee ballots
to be sent until April 13th also ruled
that election officials
had to hold results
until that same day.
And according to reports,
the SCOTUS decision that
overruled the federal court
doesn't seem to have changed that part.
Right so, we have to wait
until Monday to see anything,
but when we do see the
results it will be meaningful.
Because, yes, while you have
FiveThirtyEight predicting
that Biden has a 90% chance
of winning the most votes,
for me the most interesting
thing to watch is
what is the turn out of
republicans versus democrats.
Wisconsin is a key battle ground state.
Trump won it in 2016.
He turned the state red for
the first time in 30 years.
Right, so it was already
an important state
but then you throw in a just huge variable
and the coronavirus pandemic.
And when you look at
other polls in general,
republicans are less worried
about the coronavirus
compared to democrats.
Right, so not only how much
has that changed voter turn out
but how much does it change
voter turn out by party?
And so Wisconsin essentially
becomes the first test case for
what kind of turn out we might see
if this situation rolls into November.
But for now we have to
wait for those results
and with this also I want to
pass the question off to you.
What are your personal thoughts
about elections still being
held in Wisconsin today?
And that is where I'm
going to end today's show.
And hey, if you like this
show of course hit us
with that like button.
If you're new here definitely subscribe.
Tap that bell to turn on notifications
so you don't miss this daily show.
Also if you're looking for more to watch
I got those new videos
with Shawn Evans out
or maybe you just missed
yesterdays Philip DeFranco show
you want to catch up,
you can click or tap right there
to watch either of those right now.
But, with that said of course as always,
my name's Philip DeFranco.
You've just been filled in.
I love your faces and
I'll see you tomorrow.
- I hope you liked the video
subscribe if you like it.